# Help Wanted


Some initial notes that i've simply defined as 'tasks' is provided in the [tasks](tasks.md) file. Below are some notes.


## Notes
Building out this environment will take a very long time to do myself.  This project does not have 'funding', other than the small amount of money i have to put into supporting necessities, and due to the implications of the goals, to form a humanitarian ict foundation - both, in the more liberal sense via Local-Host works as well as via a controlled method via Webizen, its difficult to raise capital for humanitarian ict projects; and, its difficult to manage the corporate-affairs associated to projects that have humanitarian purposes that are yet to be realised.

I am entirely confident that once implementation has reached a stage where the humanitarian foundations, to support human rights, have been achieved; this will incorporate supports for economic systems, as people deserve to be paid and provided the recgonition, in a manner of their choosing, for good works that they do; and these values also leads to means to support accountability where the opposite is the case. 

Nonetheless, in what feels like a never-ending project with all too many cycles, the fundamental goals are yet to be realised and as much as there have been enormous challenges and barriers that have had effect in past; and these sorts of issues are unlikely to go away, noting they only really become 'activated' when there's resources to take / exploit...

IT would be great to find 'like minded' Collaborators, to help to create, what i hope to be, a next generation commputing platform of significance.  

There are many risks; one includes circumstances where people who get involved to learn and then get a job with a competitor that may then act to wreck the project, on competitive grounds.  Such persons make fair statements about their need to earn a living, but when these sorts of situations occur it can be exploitative to others and thereby also cause harm to others, without available remedy.  Everyone has the right to earn a living, but, the nature of doing human rights related technology is that it is difficult and/or (at times) immoral to seek to protect interests in those works, other than in relation to the functional outcomes desired, and this can be exploited by people - knowingly, and unfairly.

Whilst I have experienced various forms of problems over the many years, the thing that seems resiliant is that it is yet to be demonstrated how any of these events have led to the delivery of outcomes that means the intended outcome of the project is in-fact delivered.  Generally, the products are altered as to ensure revenue in ways that are very different, and thereby fail to deliver the characteristics needed, to deliver the humanitarian ict outcomes desired.  Yet, the other constituency to these events, is that generally they're coupled with attacks, that are impossible to do much about without resources; and may involved harms that are not necessarily knowable without significant, yet unavailable resources to do so.

Another issue is the threat of persons involved in crime seeking to get involved either to pervert the work, control it, make use of it for criminal activities (ie: activities that involve serious breaches to human rights); which may in-turn also end-up being supported by public sector workers, as criminal activity generally has revenue models at the centre of it, which thereby interacts with the above noted issue (ie: no resources to do much about it); and, can seemingly lead to effective realities where complex 'outright exploitation' objectives are engendered overall.  Indeed, where public sector entities do wrong, the consequential behaviour may appear far worse than the vast majority of others generally. 

As a foundationally imperative ecosystems requirement is to support access to justice through means whereby the evidence pertaining to a persons life is able to be stored by them, and then rendered as evidence and court materials of various kinds, which may well lead to prosecutions and/or compensatory judgements against public sector entities and/or agents; and given the lack of such forms of infrastructure today, the degree to which threats that whilst illegal if considered by a court, but sought to be engendered in a manner where that is not feasibly able to occur, this can be dangerous work, if done well. It is also considered to be work that has many aspects believed to be imperative as to protect against, what may be in-effect defined as 'digital slavery' and/or on-going systematic human rights abuses and significant disturbances to the structure of our societies and the definition of 'success' amongst the many things.  It is clear that whilst these systems seek to support human rights (inc. rule of law, etc.) that some are terrified about the implications of accountability; and, the consequence of these fears now leads to disturbing asymmetrical pervasive survellience, debt, harms and perversions in a manner that is not, for me, of any form of shared values or 'faith'. 

So, with that done...  

There is an enormous scope of works that could be done, and a fair bit that needs to be done.  In an ideal scenario, the project would be developed with a 'semantic teams' structure, that doesn't box people into a traditional sort of 'role', or team position; but rather, works on the basis of a mix between the areas that people are interested in, what level of expertise and/or experience they have in different areas; and areas where their capacities are able to be most relied upon by other team-members.  The underlying philosphy being about defining a 'knowledge fabric' and related practices, that act to support the means for people to learn and participate as persons with lesser skills in an area; whilst also, being able to act as a leader in other areas where they may be the expert.  These social structures are sought to be supported by tooling, that is yet able to be deployed; and part of the methodology is to work on shared-knowledge growth and experimentation in how these systems could be made to work, thereby seeking to ensure functional requirements have been considered as the foundations are put together.

Economically, the theory is that there will be 'semantic currencies', both financial and non-financial; and that works for Humanitarian ICT outcomes, should reasonably be able to be done on a basis of fixed returns, upto 10x 'market rate' of resources provided as contributions towards the development of any such works and/or project; and that, the focus is on seeking to promote means through which people gain benefit through demonstrating reliability, that they will deliver what they claim they will deliver, as does thereby lead to others depending upon both their capacity to do so and the results; and that, great outcomes, beyond expectations, thereby lead to benefits that thereby influences the 'market rate' for whatever it is that they do; but, there are various expectations relating to honesty and accountability, whereby contributors who do not actually do the work themselves or otherwise pollute the ecosystem, may end-up with negative consequences thereby diminishing any benefits that may be obtained via traditional and/or alternative ecosystems.

The currencies system is sought to be deployed using a blockchain related technology that is able to support very low energy consumption as to reduce the minimum transaction value to the lowest amount possible.  

It is hoped that these systems will in-future support the means to incorporate the cost of data, energy and other ingredients associated with transactions; thereby, potentially leading to an incorporated cost that can support community mesh-networking amongst the many use-cases.  Additionally, in-order to ensure systems are highly accessible, whilst also 'moral', the means to support micropayments as a means to compensate workers (developers, content creators, etc.) in particular, in relation to means through which 'obligation free' software can be produced (micropayments until obligation met, then obligation free) is considered particularly important for the development of humanitarian ict systems capable of supporting freedom of thought and other complex human rights related factors, influenced through the growth and dependence upon technology prosthetics.

Yet, these systems are yet to be implemented, and more work is still required before trials are able to occur; which may involve the operation of early versions that are later superceeded by updates that involve breaking changes (migrations).

It is also desirable that there is a means to ensure that people whose works are focused on important, yet difficult to fund tasks; are considered, by others who may beneficially engage in income generating sales by doing other tasks and/or related works.  A simple example is that, it is easily the case now that people could build & sell hardware to customers looking for local AI computers, and part of that purchasing decision might be about the development of this or similar technology; but if the people building it, are expected to fund their own costs, do the work for free and then give away the derivatives of their work so that others can profit; this is a form of slavery or wrong of a similar kind, different name; and it is morally wrong, even if generally - socially acceptable.  As such, particularly for the webizen project, people who are committed to addressing this (and many other far more complex) issue(s) are sought; not exploiters.

nobody's life, is free.  The consequence of what is done with time, has various causal implications. exploitation is a moral wrong, and i have absolutely no interest in supporting it.  Yet, the problem that others are more care-less remains and the support and resources provided by people who are truely seeking to help to get a good outcome can easily be consumed by others who do not; and, as a consequence of todays technological designs, there's not much that can be done about it.  The duality, or dichotomy (depending on how you look at it) is that this issue cannot be addressed, unless the work is done to build systems that can be used to address those problems; and, those who benefit by solutions not being available, will consider the production of any such form of 'human rights apparatus' for the modern age, a major threat.

Overall; help is desired, the ability to deliver the outcomes sought now, for decades by some, is hard to do; but can be done, technically if not otherwise.  So, if that's something you want to try to achieve with me, i'd be thankful for any productive and useful works that make progress, particularly towards the more foundational intents & purposes, and if you want to go do it yourself seperately - i think that should be encouraged, but if there's parts that you intend on creating that can be used by others (thereby, the work is actually similar) then it would be good to know, so that resources are not poorly and/or selfishly misused; when there's not enough hours, not enough people, and far too much to do, anyway.

## The Carrot

The hope is, that these works will result in a platform that enables people to do creative work and make them available in a manner that promotes human dignity; and, enables the production of great outcomes, far more rapidly than alternatives, transformationally impacting productivity and opportunity.  IT is hoped that people who contribute towards these works, can be amongst those that may in-future be defined as the 'new billionaires', people who have positively impacted the lives of a billion people, in someway, even if only small; and, as is of no lesser value also, that perhaps the works of some, may also act to have a significantly positive impact even on a single individual, but also perhaps simply a few. 

I think both are plausible. indeed, perhaps, i speak from experience...  its been a long journey, a difficult journey, its certainly not for everyone - but if you do want to help to create something remarkable, you are encouraged to get involved.